and all that young owls have to do is
learn some of the tricks of the train
would mice collect ladders of food ready
for winter
this one is using an old black bird's
nest
but i'll see and hear everything
[Music]
the short-eared owls have returned to
the farm after a successful summer on
the moors
and now we are five again
rearing half a dozen youngsters in one
season
it's not hard to see how the little owls
managed to colonize most of england
but of all the owls the long-eared are
the ones most likely to remain together
outside the breeding season some
communal roosts may contain more than
one family
breeding at different times using
different nest sites
feeding on a wide variety of prey to
reduce competition
these five owls have found a way to
succeed in this
special place now another chapter in the
story of
our owls is being written
a new invader from the land of the
vikings
has recently arrived in britain the
eagle island
has landed ten times the size of our
largest owl
this is the most spectacular owl to
reach our shores
and now we are six
over thousands of years owls have cast
their spell over people
it's hard to imagine a countryside
without them
yet their greatest challenge is still to
come in this fast
changing world
[Music]
how many more years will the elder tree
survive here with its surrounding rich
wet meadows hedgerows and woods
[Music]
the railway that passes through this
farm may soon be upgraded to a much
wider faster busier main line
[Music]
and what if the vital ingredient that
keeps the owl's magic
alive apart from the bar now
most of our owls are not particularly
wealthy
yet where would they all be without
their age-old alliance
with the most endangered breed the
traditional farmer
without them the owls could all
just vanish
[Music]
you